---
title: 'The Weight of What We Keep: Sentimentalism, Memory and Meaning'
date: 2025-05-23T20:57:19.777Z
audio: audio/8.mp3
number: 8
author: Masha Reprintseva
---

In this reflective episode, we delve into the emotional terrain of sentimental objects – books, photographs, textiles, and cherished fragments left behind by those we've loved. These items, both intimate and ordinary, become powerful vessels of memory and identity. But what happens when they begin to clutter our inner landscape?

Through personal stories and cultural analysis, we explore the psychological and philosophical impact of keeping these sentimental traces. Are they sacred heirlooms of personal history – or emotional anchors that can hold us back from healing and growth?
We draw inspiration from Ann Hamilton who explores themes of memory, presence, and the passage of time through clothes and garment, and Marcin Wicha’s "Things I Didn’t Throw Out" – a subtle meditation on grief, memory, and the objects that remain.
Their insights help frame a conversation around emotional archaeology, the balance between remembering and letting go, and the necessity of reflecting on both the nourishing and burdensome sides of sentimentality.

Whether you're a keeper of treasures or a quiet minimalist, this episode invites you to look again at the things you’ve saved – and ask why.Tune in, reflect, and perhaps reimagine your relationship to the past—one object at a time.

Music: [Lidérc - Aesthetic Boomopera](https://pixabay.com/music/beats-aesthetic-boomopera-podcast-lofi-lounge-intro-music-15s-seconds-149967/)
